Welcome to course four of
the big data specialization.
I'm Ilkay Altintas, for the new learners
I'm the Chief Data Science Officer
at the San Diego Supercomputer Center at
the University of California, San Diego.
I feel honored to teach you
the basics of big data modeling,
management, and
analysis in this specialization.
And to work with Dr.
Mai Nguyen on this class.
>> And I'm Mai Nguyen, while most of
you might be familiar with Ilkay,
I'm a new face.
I'm excited to be here to teach you
what I love doing, machine learning.
I received my PhD in computer science
with a focus on machine learning
from the University of
California in San Diego.
Since then,
I have worked as a data scientist,
and instructor of machine
learning in various venues.
I am the Lead for Data Analytics at SDFC.
In this role, I work on data
science projects doing research
on scalability on machine
learning methods to big data.
>> We are really happy to have you in this
course to develop your understanding and
skills in machine learning.
>> And
give you an introductory level experience
with application of machine
learning to big data.
By now you might have just finished
our first three courses and
learned the basics of big data modeling,
management, integration, and processing.
If you haven't, it's not required.
But for those with less background
in big data management and
systems, you might find it valuable.
>> We understand that you may
not even have heard anything on
machine learning yet.
That's why we will start by
discussing what machine learning is.
Describing some sample applications and
presenting the typical process
of a machine learning project to give
you a sense of what machine learning is.
Then we will delve into some
commonly used machine learning
techniques like classification and
clustering.
>> We are also going to show you how
to explore your data, prepare it for
analysis, and evaluate the results you
get with your machine learning model.
These are all necessary steps for
a successful machine learning solution.
>> As you know, for
many data science applications
one has to use many different tools and
methods to analyze data.
In fact, keeping up with the rapid
development of new tools is
one of the challenges of
today's big data environment.
In this course, we will introduce you to
two different types of machine learning
tools namely Nime and Spark MNL.
Nime is a graphical user interface based
tool that requires no programming.
And as representative of
a set of tools used in visual
workflow approach to machine learning.
You will have hand on practice with
Nime as you go through the exercises in
this course.
We are also excited to show you
examples of data processing
using Sparks Machine Learning library and
OwlWeb.
Our goal here is to provide you
with simple hands-on exercises that
require introductory level programming,
to inspire you on how big data machine
learning tools can be operated.
We wish you a fun time learning and
hope to hear from you in the discussion
forums and learner stories as always.
>> We have suggested time estimates
each week for the course.
But feel free to take the course
at a faster or slower pace.
And don't forget to connect to other
learners through the forums to
enhance your learning experience.
>> Happy learning.